# Generic Types, Traits, and Lifetimes
Generics are abstract stand-ins for concrete types or other properties. Their behavior can be expressed without knowing what will be in their place when compiling and running the code.

Generics can be used to create definitions for items like function signatures or structs, which can then be used with different data types.

When you recognize situations in your code with multiple struct or enum definitions that differ only in the types of the values they hold, you can avoid duplication by using generic types instead.

## In Function Definitions
Generics are placed in in the signature of the function where the data types of the parameters and return values are usually specified.

```rust
fn largest<T>(list: &[T]) -> T {
```

This definition is read as: the function `largest` is generic over some type `T`. It has one parameter named `list`, which is a slice of values of type `T`. The `largest` function will return a value of the same type `T`.

## In Struct Definitions
Structs can also be defined to use a generic type parameter.

```rust
struct Point<T> {
    x: T,
    y: T,
}

fn main() {
    let integer = Point { x: 5, y: 10  };
    let float = Point { x: 1.0, y: 4.0  };
}
```

## In Enum Definitions
Enums too can hold generic data types in their variants.

```rust
enum Option<T> {
    Some(T),
    None,
}
```

## In Method Definitions
Method can be implemented on structs and enums, thus generic types can be used in their defintions as well.

```rust
struct Point<T> {
    x: T,
    y: T,
}

impl<T> Point<T> {
    fn x(&self) -> &T {
        &self.x
    }
}

fn main() {
    let p = Point { x: 5, y: 10  };
    println!("p.x = {}", p.x());
}
```

`T` is declared just after `impl` to specify that we're implementing methods on the type `Point<T>`.
This means we could implement methods only on `Point<f32>` instances rather than on `Point<T>`.

```rust
impl Point<f32> {
    fn distance_from_origin(&self) -> f32 {
        (self.x.powi(2) + self.y.powi(2)).sqrt()
    }
}

```

## Performance
Because Rust compiles generic code into code that specifies the type in each instance, we pay no runtime cost for using generics. When the code runs, it performs just as it would if we had duplicated each definition by hand. The process of monomorphization makes Rust’s generics extremely efficient at runtime.
