# Ownership

Ownership is Rust’s most unique feature, and it enables Rust to make memory safety guarantees without needing a garbage collector.

## What is Ownership?

Rust’s central feature is *ownership*. Memory is managed through a system of ownership with a set of rules that the compiler checks at compile time.

>   ### The Stack and the Heap
>
>   Whether a value is on the stack or the heap has more of an effect on how the language behaves and why you have to make certain decisions.
>
>   The stack and the heap are parts of memory that are available to your code to use at runtime, but they are structured in different ways:
>
>   *   The stack stores values in the order it gets them and removes the values in the opposite order. This is referred to as *last in, first out*. Think of a stack of plates: when you add more plates, you put them on top of the pile, and when you need a plate, you take one off the top. All data stored on the stack must have a known, fixed size.
>
>   *   The heap is less organized: when you put data on the heap, you request a certain amount of space. The operating system finds an empty spot in the heap that is big enough, marks it as being in use, and returns a *pointer*, which is the address of that location. Pushing values onto the stack is not considered allocating. Because the pointer is a known, fixed size, you can store the pointer on the stack, but when you want the actual data, you must follow the pointer.
>       *   Think of being seated at a restaurant. When you enter, you state the number of pejople in your group, and the staff finds an empty table that fits everyone and leads you there. If someone in your group comes late, they can ask where you’ve been seated to find you.
>   *   

