# Ownership

Ownership is Rust’s most unique feature, and it enables Rust to make memory safety guarantees without needing a garbage collector.

## What is Ownership?

Rust’s central feature is *ownership*. Memory is managed through a system of ownership with a set of rules that the compiler checks at compile time.

>   ### [The Stack and the Heap](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch04-01-what-is-ownership.html#the-stack-and-the-heap)

## Ownership Rules

-   Each value in Rust has a variable that’s called its *owner*.
-   There can only be one owner at a time.
-   When the owner goes out of scope, the value will be dropped.

### Variable Scope

A scope is the range within a program for which an item is valid.

-   When a `variable` comes *into scope*, it is valid.
-   It remains valid until it goes *out of scope*.

### The String Type

The string literal types covered previously are all stored on the stack and popped off the stack when their scope is over

String literals are convenient, but they aren’t suitable for every situation.

1.  They’re immutable. 
2.  Not every string value is known when code is written: for example, taking user input and storing it. 

For these situations, Rust has a second string type, `String`, which is allocated on the heap and is able to store text that is unknown when compiling.

```rust
let s = String::from("hello");
```
> _The double colon (`::`) is an operator that allows us to namespace this 	particular `from`._
>
> _It is used to call associated functions from static items, and thus the output from the items will always be the same, asides from the parameters._

This kind of string *can* be mutated.

The difference between `String` and literals is how the two types deal with memory.

### Memory and Allocation

In the case of a string literal, we know the contents at compile time, so the text is hardcoded directly into the final executable. This is why string literals are fast and efficient.

In order to store a mutable, growable piece of text for a `String` type, an amount of memory is allocated on the heap that is unknown at compile time. 

-   This means the memory must be requested from the operating system at runtime, and there needs to be a way to return this memory to the operating system after its usage.